.nr X
.TH bp 1 "June 1999"
.SH NAME
bp \- BinProlog - 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f4bp\f1
[\f4\-h\f2 n\f1]
[\f4\-s\f2 n\f1]
[\f4\-t\f2 n\f1]
[\f4\-c\f2 n\f1]
[\f4\-b\f2 n\f1]
[\f4\-i\f2 n\f1]
[\f2filename\f1] 
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Various Unix systems and Windows NT and 9x

.SH DESCRIPTION

BinProlog is a fairly complete Prolog
implementation featuring both C-emulated execution
and generation of standalone applications
by compilation to C. Some other features are:
dynamic recompilation,
Tcl/Tk interface,
C-compatible floating point operations, dynamic code,
heap garbage collector,
intuitionistic and linear implication,
efficient high-order programming builtins, logical
global variables, backtrackable destructive assignment,
circular term unification, extended DCGs (now built in
the engine as `invisible grammars'), objects, Linda-extensions
for INTERNET programmig, continuation
manipulation primitives, a garbage-collected
hashing based global dictionnary for constant-time sparse
arrays and graphs, a C-interface (optional with C-source
licensing) etc.

The \f4bp\fP command starts the BinProlog toplevel.

The directory \f4pl2c\fP contains a project (*.pro) file
and a makefile for generating a standalone application
through compilation to C.

The directory \f4TCL\fP contains a bidirectional client-server based
BinProlog to Tcl/Tk interface.

The directory \f4cparser\fP contains
Koen De Bosschere's ISO Prolog
parser (written in C) and BinProlog standalones
based on the parser (cbinpro.*). Reading files
with the parser is about 5 times faster than with
BinProlog's Prolog based parser.

The directory \f4csoks\fP contains as standalone socket programs
BinProlog's networking layer.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-h\f2 n\f1 
.B Heap size in Kb.
.TP
.B \-s\f2 n\f1
.B Stack size in Kb.
.TP
.B \-t\f2 n\f1
.B Trail size in Kb.
.TP
.B \-c\f2 n\f1
.B Code size in Kb.
.TP
.B \-b\f2 n\f1
.B Blackboard size in Kb, dynamic if 0.
.TP
.B \-d\f2 n\f1
.B String Input-Output buffer in Kb.
.TP
.B \-d\f2 n\f1
.B Exponent of 2, entries in hashing table.
.TP
.B \-a\f2 n\f1
.B Exponent of 2, entries atom table.
.TP
.B \-q\f2 n\f1
.B Level of quietness to control messages.
.TP
.B \-l\f2 n\f1
.B  Default load method (1..5)
.TP
.B \-r\f2 n\f1
.B  call/update ratio for dynamic recompilation
.TP
.B \f2filename \f1 
.B Prolog run time system or startup file. 
When omitted, the filename wam.bp is used by default,
which is usually embedded in the standalone executable
generated through translation to C.
Use info/0, info/1 and help/1 for online information on builtins.
.SH NOTES
For lates BinProlog and Jinni related developments
visit BinNet Corporation's Web site at http://www.binnetcorp.com .

